Update a message schema

you must not change the tag numbers of any existing fields.
you must not add or delete any required fields.
you may delete optional or repeated fields.
you may add new optional or repeated fields but you must use fresh tag numbers (i.e. tag numbers that were never used in this protocol buffer, not even by deleted fields).


Don't change the field numbers for any existing fields.
If you add new fields, any messages serialized by code using your "old" message format can still be parsed by your new generated code. You should keep in mind the default values for these elements so that new code can properly interact with messages generated by old code. Similarly, messages created by your new code can be parsed by your old code: old binaries simply ignore the new field when parsing. See the Unknown Fields section for details.
Fields can be removed, as long as the field number is not used again in your updated message type. You may want to rename the field instead, perhaps adding the prefix "OBSOLETE_", or make the field number reserved, so that future users of your .proto can't accidentally reuse the number.
int32, uint32, int64, uint64, and bool are all compatible – this means you can change a field from one of these types to another without breaking forwards- or backwards-compatibility. If a number is parsed from the wire which doesn't fit in the corresponding type, you will get the same effect as if you had cast the number to that type in C++ (e.g. if a 64-bit number is read as an int32, it will be truncated to 32 bits).
sint32 and sint64 are compatible with each other but are not compatible with the other integer types.
string and bytes are compatible as long as the bytes are valid UTF-8.
Embedded messages are compatible with bytes if the bytes contain an encoded version of the message.
fixed32 is compatible with sfixed32, and fixed64 with sfixed64.
enum is compatible with int32, uint32, int64, and uint64 in terms of wire format (note that values will be truncated if they don't fit). However be aware that client code may treat them differently when the message is deserialized: for example, unrecognized proto3 enum types will be preserved in the message, but how this is represented when the message is deserialized is language-dependent. Int fields always just preserve their value.
Changing a single value into a member of a new oneof is safe and binary compatible. Moving multiple fields into a new oneof may be safe if you are sure that no code sets more than one at a time. Moving any fields into an existing oneof is not safe.
